---
title:      "Opening"
date:       2016-10-29 17:09:00
tags: [opening,first]
---
The comfort zone is that little and toxic shelter that all of us must leave in order to progress both in our professional and personal lives. Believing of myself as an ever knowledge-hungry person, I have always thought that everyone should push him or herself out of the comfort zone as much as possible. 

Following my own advice, I start today this new project that has been spinning in my head for too much time. Although the content on this space is intended to be technical and, consequently, professional, it is very difficult for me to unlink whatever I will be posting in the future from my personal self. As my intention is to share my progress on technical development, I will be also sharing everything I may achieve in my most precious hobby.

This blog aims to be a journey notebook for sharing my learning experiences, trying to force myself to register my evolution and, in the future, to be able to look back and perceive how much I may have walked.

But fist things first:

## Who I am
I am a Spanish computer engineer currently studying an MSc in computer security in the UK, expecting to earn a living afterwards with this, my passion.

## _What_ I am 
I am a technology lover. A Linux enthusiast. A fervid Vim user. A command-line ninja. A restlessly inquisitive person. A DevOps curious. An avid reader. An amateur musician. A sporty guy. A disastrous chess player.

All these (and many more) things characterize me to some extent, but I have never wanted to be defined by my words, but by my acts, so let's get down to work.

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/nCOuGrLtsoU?color=white&theme=light"></iframe>


*__Credits__*: Thanks to [Josh Geredes](https://github.com/joshgerdes/jekyll-uno) for the jekyll template.
